---
title: Must-Know Ubuntu Commands
tags: ubuntu
image: cover.jpg
description: "Many people are looking for alternatives to Twitter. Can the IndieWeb step up? How can we build better social media for people without technical knowledge?"
featured: true
featuredImage: mountains.jpg
featuredImageColor: "#8BC226"
---

Ubuntu is the most popular Debian-based distribution of Linux Operating System; It was initially released in 2004. Due to its distinctive features, various distros of Linux are developed based on Ubuntu. It is developed and maintained by Canonical Ltd. and a large community of software developers around the globe; Canonical Ltd. is a software company with its origin in the UK, and it has hired staff in several countries to work for Ubuntu. There are several releases of Ubuntu, such as stable release, Long Term Support (LTS), and unstable. The stable and unstable releases are launched every year in April and October, respectively, whereas the long-term support variant is released after two years and is available for the next five years. The latest LTS release is 20.04; it will be available till 2025. Ubuntu supports both Command Line Interface (CLI) and Graphical User Interface (GUI) to perform various tasks on the OS. CLI is the basic way to interact with systems hardware (processor/memory); you can perform all the tasks that GUI can perform. In this article, we will demonstrate the use of 25 basic commands that provide ease to execute various tasks of Ubuntu using CLI.

__What are the basic commands of Ubuntu?__
This section contains some basic commands of Ubuntu, so let us start and discuss them one by one. Firstly, you must open the terminal in Ubuntu; press “ctrl+alt+t” from your keyboard to open the terminal.

__Command 1: pwd__
This command refers to the present working directory in which you are operating; in simpler words, in which your terminal is open. To check PWD, execute the pwd keyword in your terminal and hit enter; the command of PWD is written below along with the result of that command.
`pwd`

__Command 2: dir__
The dir command is used to print (on the terminal) all the available directories in the present working directory: